.TH INIT\-CONTAINER 8 "OCTOBER 2019"
.SH NAME
.PP
init\-container \- perform initial setup for 64\-bit Debian guest OS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCinit\-container\fR \fIMACHINENAME\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCinit\-container\fR performs initial setup on the bootable 64\-bit Debian image
\fI/var/lib/machines/MACHINENAME\fP, to prepare it for use as part of the
\fB\fCraspbian\-nspawn\-64\fR package.
.PP
Because all customization is performed by a host\-side script in this
way, the actual image itself (supplied by e.g., the \fB\fCdebian\-buster\-64\fR
package) can be a vanilla system, itself created by e.g., 
.BR debootstrap (1).
.PP
\fB\fCinit\-container\fR performs the following modifications to the base
image:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Ensures \fIMACHINENAME\fP resolves for the IPv4 and IPv6 loopback
interfaces in \fI/etc/hosts\fP\&.
.IP \(bu 2
On first invocation only, removes any \fI/etc/machine\-id\fP file (one
will automatically assigned on boot, and will be retained from that
point forward).
.IP \(bu 2
Copies in the (counterpart, guest\-OS side) \fB\fCcontainer\-init\fR,
\fB\fCreflect\-timezone\fR and
\fB\fCreflect\-locale\fR systemd service files, path units, and matching
\fI/usr/sbin\fP binaries, and enables them.
.IP \(bu 2
Ensures all members of the \fB\fCsudo\fR group can execute any command,
without password.
.IP \(bu 2
Masks issues due to the unavailability of the accessibility bus.
.IP \(bu 2
Ensures that software DRI rendering is available (as, at the time of
writing, the current Debian (Buster) \fB\fCmesa\fR does not allow the use of
\fI/dev/dri\fP).
.IP \(bu 2
Adds a fixup to 
.BR pulseaudio (1) 
(inhibiting timer mode).
.IP \(bu 2
Finally, calls the 
.BR reflect-locale (8), 
.BR reflect-passwd (8) 
and
.BR reflect-timezone (8) 
(host\-side) helpers once, to ensure the
relevant host data
is available in the guest at startup. The 
.BR reflect-apps (8) 
helper is \fInot\fP
called, as that migrates data from guest to host (and will be invoked
once the image is up in any event).
.RE
.SH INVOCATION
.PP
Note that \fB\fCinit\-container\fR is not intended to be directly user\-executed; it is
normally called via the 
.BR systemd (1) 
\fB\fCinit\-container@\fR\fIMACHINENAME\fP service.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
The exit status is 0 if the specified \fIMACHINENAME\fP image is present
and has been successfully modified; and a non\-zero error code
otherwise.
.SH FILES
.PP
Operates on the bootable 64\-bit OS image tree at
\fI/var/lib/machines/MACHINENAME\fP\&.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Bugs should be reported on the
project's GitHub page \[la]https://github.com/sakaki-/raspbian-nspawn-64/issues\[ra]\&.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \[co] 2019 sakaki
.PP
License GPLv3+ GNU GPL version 3 or later \[la]http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html\[ra]
.PP
This is free software, you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
sakaki \[la]sakaki@deciban.com\[ra]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR reflect-apps (8), 
.BR reflect-locale (8), 
.BR reflect-passwd (8),
.BR reflect-timezone (8), 
.BR systemd-nspawn (1), 
.BR Xorg (1)
