.TH REFLECT\-PASSWD 8 "OCTOBER 2019"
.SH NAME
.PP
reflect\-passwd \- sync some user, group info from host into guest OS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCreflect\-passwd\fR \fIMACHINENAME\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCreflect\-passwd\fR ensures that the host's user and group information (for
users in the 1000 <= UID < 1100 range) is copied into the guest OS
image (with any conflicts resolved in favour of the host data).
.PP
The process operates broadly as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The host's \fI/etc/group\fP file is parsed, to establish a mapping
between GID and group name.
.IP \(bu 2
Then, the host's \fI/etc/passwd\fP file is parsed, and any UIDS
1000 <= UID < 1100 in the host are recorded. Call this the active set.
.IP \(bu 2
The guest's \fI/etc/passwd\fP file is then processed, dropping any lines with 
overlapping UIDs or usernames, and inserting corresponding active set lines
from the counterpart host version of the file.
.IP \(bu 2
Then the host's \fI/etc/shadow\fP file is parsed, recording the (hashed)
password data corresponding to entries in the active set.
.IP \(bu 2
Next, the guest's \fI/etc/shadow\fP file is processed, dropping any overlapping
lines, and inserting the active set password data just captured.
.IP \(bu 2
Then the host's \fI/etc/group\fP file is parsed, recording any primary groups
for users in the active set.
.IP \(bu 2
Next, the guest's \fI/etc/group\fP file is processed, dropping any clashing
lines, and ensuring that all active set members belong
to their corresponding primary groups (creating these if required),
and of the \fB\fC$USE_GROUP\fR
secondary groups (viz. \fB\fCadm\fR, \fB\fCdialout\fR, \fB\fCsudo\fR,
\fB\fCaudio\fR, \fB\fCvideo\fR, \fB\fCplugdev\fR, \fB\fCgames\fR, \fB\fCusers\fR, \fB\fCinput\fR, \fB\fCnetdev\fR, 
\fB\fCgpio\fR, \fB\fCi2c\fR and \fB\fCspi\fR) providing such groups are already defined on the
guest (i.e., these secondary groups are \fInot\fP created where absent on the
guest).
.IP \(bu 2
Then, the host's \fI/etc/gshadow\fP file is parsed, recording the (hashed)
password data corresponding to entries in the core group set just defined.
.IP \(bu 2
Finally, the guest's \fI/etc/gshadow\fP file is processed, removing any
clashing lines, and replacing these with those just captured from the
counterpart host file.
.RE
.PP
Modifications are made to a set of temporary files first, then switched
over en bloc, to mitigate against mid\-execution crashes.
.SH INVOCATION
.PP
Note that \fB\fCreflect\-passwd\fR is not intended to be directly user\-executed; it is
normally called via the 
.BR systemd (1) 
\fB\fCreflect\-passwd@\fR\fIMACHINENAME\fP service.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
The exit status is 0 if the user and group information is successfully
sync'd; and a non\-zero error code otherwise.
.SH FILES
.PP
Operates on the bootable 64\-bit OS image tree at
\fI/var/lib/machines/MACHINENAME\fP\&.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Bugs should be reported on the
project's GitHub page \[la]https://github.com/sakaki-/raspbian-nspawn-64/issues\[ra]\&.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \[co] 2019 sakaki
.PP
License GPLv3+ GNU GPL version 3 or later \[la]http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html\[ra]
.PP
This is free software, you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
sakaki \[la]sakaki@deciban.com\[ra]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR reflect-apps (8), 
.BR reflect-locale (8), 
.BR reflect-timezone (8),
.BR systemd-nspawn (1)
