.TH DS64\-STOP 1 "FEBRUARY 2020"
.SH NAME
.PP
ds64\-stop \- shut down the 64\-bit Debian sidekick OS, if running
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCds64\-stop\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCds64\-stop\fR attempts to shut down the current 64\-bit Debian 'sidekick' guest
OS, if it is running.
.PP
Upon a error\-free return from this command, you can rely upon the guest OS
being down, allowing you to e.g., safely take a backup of its root filesystem.
.PP
NB: any programs or shells currently running inside the guest will be
forcibly closed when the container is stopped.
.PP
To start the guest back up again, use 
.BR ds64-start (1).
.PP
A 
.BR zenity (1) 
dialog status display is provided on exit, with a 5 second
auto\-dismissal timeout, where possible.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
The exit status is 0 if the guest OS is shut down upon exit, and 1 otherwise.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fI/etc/ds64.conf\fP
.PP
Configuration file specifying various controlling environment
variables, including \fB\fC$DS64_NAME\fR (defaults to \fIdebian\-buster\-64\fP) and
\fB\fC$DS64_DIR\fR (defaults to \fI/var/lib/machines/debian\-buster\-64\fP).
.SH BUGS
.PP
Bugs should be reported on the
project's GitHub page \[la]https://github.com/sakaki-/raspbian-nspawn-64/issues\[ra]\&.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \[co] 2019\-20 sakaki
.PP
License GPLv3+ GNU GPL version 3 or later \[la]http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html\[ra]
.PP
This is free software, you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
sakaki \[la]sakaki@deciban.com\[ra]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ds64-runner (1), 
.BR ds64-start (1), 
.BR zenity (1)
