.TH DS64\-SHELL 1 "FEBRUARY 2020"
.SH NAME
.PP
ds64\-shell \- open a shell inside the 64\-bit Debian sidekick OS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCds64\-shell\fR [ARGS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCds64\-shell\fR attempts to open an 
.BR bash (1) 
shell inside the
current 64\-bit Debian 'sidekick' guest OS (which must be running). The
shell is invoked under your current UID and GID (which will have been
automatically reflected into the guest by 
.BR reflect-passwd (8)).
.PP
The shell has the necessary environment variables set to e.g.,
enable it to use the host's 
.BR pulseaudio (1) 
server, access the host's
.BR Xorg (1) 
server etc. By default, an \fIinteractive\fP shell is opened;
when you have finished using it, it may be closed using ctrl\-d.
.PP
You may use passwordless 
.BR sudo (8) 
inside the shell to gain root privileges (in
order, to, for example, use 
.BR apt-get (1) 
to install new packages).
.PP
Any guest\-OS programs started from the shell will exit whenever
the shell itself is closed, 
.BR nohup (1) 
notwithstanding, so, if you want
to run a detached GUI program, use 
.BR ds64-runner (1) 
or 
.BR ds64-run (1) 
instead.
.PP
To \fIinvoke\fP a shell script in the guest OS directly, use \fB\fCds64\-shell\fR with
the \fB\fC\-c\fR option, e.g.:
.PP
\fB\fCds64\-shell \-c top\fR
.PP
If the sidekick OS is not running when \fB\fCds64\-shell\fR is invoked,
a \fB\fCzenity\fR error dialog will be shown, with a 5 second auto\-dismissal
timeout, where possible.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
The exit status is 1 if the sidekick OS is not running, and 0
otherwise (regardless of the return status of any command invoked
inside the shell itself).
.SH FILES
.PP
\fI/etc/ds64.conf\fP
.PP
Configuration file specifying various controlling environment
variables, including \fB\fC$DS64_NAME\fR (defaults to \fIdebian\-buster\-64\fP) and
\fB\fC$DS64_DIR\fR (defaults to \fI/var/lib/machines/debian\-buster\-64\fP).
.SH BUGS
.PP
Bugs should be reported on the
project's GitHub page \[la]https://github.com/sakaki-/raspbian-nspawn-64/issues\[ra]\&.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright \[co] 2019\-20 sakaki
.PP
License GPLv3+ GNU GPL version 3 or later \[la]http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html\[ra]
.PP
This is free software, you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
sakaki \[la]sakaki@deciban.com\[ra]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR apt-get (1), 
.BR bash (1), 
.BR ds64-run (1), 
.BR ds64-runner (1), 
.BR nohup (1),
.BR pulseaudio (1), 
.BR sudo (8), 
.BR Xorg (1), 
.BR zenity (1)
